README.md, before:

# DeepSix - Navigate the Deepest Frontiers

<div align="center">
  <img src="deepSix.png" alt="DeepSix Logo" width="600" />

  <p align="center">
    <strong>Real-time mission control for humanity's journey into the deepest reaches of space</strong>
  </p>

  <!-- Badges -->
  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix/stargazers">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Sarks0/DeepSix?style=for-the-badge&logo=starship&color=C9CBFF&logoColor=D9E0EE&labelColor=302D41" alt="Stars">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/Sarks0/DeepSix?style=for-the-badge&logo=apache&color=FAE3B0&logoColor=D9E0EE&labelColor=302D41" alt="License">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix/commits/main">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/Sarks0/DeepSix?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&color=ABE9B3&logoColor=D9E0EE&labelColor=302D41" alt="Last Commit">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix/graphs/contributors">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/Sarks0/DeepSix?style=for-the-badge&logo=opensourceinitiative&color=F28FAD&logoColor=D9E0EE&labelColor=302D41" alt="Contributors">
    </a>
  </p>

  <!-- Tech Stack Badges -->
  <p align="center">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js_15-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=next.js&logoColor=white" alt="Next.js">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white" alt="TypeScript">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white" alt="Tailwind CSS">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Framer_Motion-0055FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=framer&logoColor=white" alt="Framer Motion">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Vercel-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white" alt="Vercel">
  </p>

  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://deepsix.vercel.app">Live Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="#features">Features</a>
    ·
    <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
    ·
    <a href="#mission-coverage">Missions</a>
    ·
    <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a>
  </p>
</div>

---

## About

A comprehensive real-time dashboard for tracking **15+ NASA deep space missions** across the solar system and beyond. DeepSix provides live mission data, spacecraft telemetry, Mars sol cycle monitoring, and real-time position tracking using NASA's official APIs.

> **Note:** This is an active hobby project with continuous improvements and new features being added regularly. More data sources and mission coverage coming soon!

---

## Features

### Mars Mission Tracking
- **Real-time Sol Tracking** - Live Martian day counters for Perseverance & Curiosity
- **Mars Local Solar Time (MLST)** - Accurate timekeeping on Mars
- **Seasonal Information** - Current Mars season and solar longitude
- **Latest Surface Photos** - Fresh images from Mars rovers with automatic rotation
- **Mission Telemetry** - Health status, signal strength, and data rates

### Deep Space Missions
- **Live Position Data** - Real-time spacecraft positions via JPL Horizons API
- **Distance & Velocity** - Current distance from Earth and travel speeds
- **Communication Delays** - Signal travel time calculations (one-way & round-trip)
- **Mission Status** - Health, operational status, and fuel remaining
- **Journey Progress** - For en route missions (Europa Clipper, Lucy, Psyche, OSIRIS-APEX)

### Mission Coverage (15+ Missions)
- **Mars System** - 5 active missions (rovers, orbiters, landers)
- **Deep Space Probes** - Voyager 1 & 2, Parker Solar Probe, New Horizons
- **Jupiter System** - Juno orbiter, Europa Clipper (en route)
- **Asteroid Missions** - Lucy, Psyche, OSIRIS-APEX (all en route)
- **Space Observatories** - James Webb Space Telescope

### User Experience
- **Full-Width Responsive Design** - Optimized for all screen sizes
- **Data Source Attribution** - Clear labeling of API sources (NASA, JPL)
- **Smooth Animations** - Powered by Framer Motion
- **Offline Support** - Image caching with IndexedDB
- **Real-time Updates** - Live data feeds with configurable refresh rates

---

## Mission Coverage

### Mars System (5 missions)
| Mission | Type | Status | Tracking |
|---------|------|--------|----------|
| **Perseverance** | Rover | Active | Sol tracking, Photos, Telemetry |
| **Curiosity** | Rover | Active | Sol tracking, Photos, Telemetry |
| **Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter** | Orbiter | Active (19+ years) | Status, Telemetry |
| **MAVEN** | Orbiter | Active | Status, Telemetry |
| **Mars Odyssey** | Orbiter | Active (24+ years) | Status, Telemetry |

### Deep Space Probes (4 missions)
| Mission | Location | Distance | Tracking |
|---------|----------|----------|----------|
| **Voyager 1** | Interstellar Space | 164+ AU | Position, Status, Telemetry |
| **Voyager 2** | Interstellar Space | 134+ AU | Position, Status, Telemetry |
| **Parker Solar Probe** | Solar Corona | Variable | Position, Status, Telemetry |
| **New Horizons** | Kuiper Belt | 62.2 AU | Position, Status, Telemetry |

### Jupiter System (2 missions)
| Mission | Status | Arrival | Tracking |
|---------|--------|---------|----------|
| **Juno** | Active (Extended) | In orbit | Position, Status, Telemetry |
| **Europa Clipper** | En Route | April 2030 | Position, Journey Status |

### Asteroid Missions (3 missions)
| Mission | Target | Arrival | Tracking |
|---------|--------|---------|----------|
| **Lucy** | Trojan Asteroids | 2027-2033 | Position, Journey Status |
| **Psyche** | Metallic Asteroid | August 2029 | Position, Journey Status |
| **OSIRIS-APEX** | Asteroid Apophis | April 2029 | Position, Journey Status |

### Space Observatories (1 mission)
| Mission | Location | Purpose | Tracking |
|---------|----------|---------|----------|
| **James Webb** | L2 Lagrange | Infrared Observatory | Status, Telemetry |

### Historical Missions (Available)
- **Mars InSight** - Ended December 2022 (Seismic studies)

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js 20+** - [Download](https://nodejs.org/)
- **NASA API Key** - Free at [api.nasa.gov](https://api.nasa.gov)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix.git
   cd DeepSix
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   # Edit .env.local and add your NASA API key
   ```

4. **Run the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open the dashboard**

   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### Deployment

**Deploy to Vercel** (Recommended):

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix)

**Or build manually**:
```bash
npm run build
npm run start
```

---

## Tech Stack

### Core Framework
- **Next.js 15** - React framework with App Router and Server Components
- **TypeScript** - Full type safety and enhanced developer experience
- **React 19** - Latest React features and performance improvements

### Styling & UI
- **Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first CSS framework
- **Framer Motion** - Production-ready animation library
- **CSS Grid & Flexbox** - Modern responsive layouts

### State Management & Data
- **Zustand** - Lightweight state management
- **IndexedDB** - Client-side data caching for offline support
- **React Query** - Server state management (coming soon)

### APIs & Data Sources
- **NASA Mars Rover Photos API** - Latest images from Mars surface
- **NASA JPL Horizons API** - Real-time spacecraft positions
- **NASA Deep Space Network (DSN)** - Communication tracking
- **Mars Weather API** - Martian atmospheric data

### Development Tools
- **ESLint** - Code linting and style enforcement
- **Prettier** - Code formatting
- **TypeScript Compiler** - Type checking

### Deployment
- **Vercel** - Edge network deployment with automatic CI/CD
- **GitHub Actions** - Automated testing and deployment workflows

---

## Development Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start development server (localhost:3000) |
| `npm run build` | Build for production |
| `npm run start` | Start production server |
| `npm run lint` | Run ESLint code linting |
| `npm run type-check` | TypeScript type checking |
| `npm run format` | Format code with Prettier |

---

## Roadmap

### Current Features
- [x] 15+ mission coverage with live data
- [x] Real-time position tracking (JPL Horizons API)
- [x] Mars sol tracking for active rovers
- [x] Mission status indicators and telemetry
- [x] Communication delay calculations
- [x] Full-width responsive design
- [x] Data source attribution

### Planned Features
- [ ] Mission filtering and sorting
- [ ] 3D visualization of spacecraft positions
- [ ] Historical mission archives
- [ ] International missions (ESA, JAXA)
- [ ] Timeline view for mission milestones
- [ ] Deep Space Network (DSN) status dashboard
- [ ] Mission comparison tools
- [ ] Export mission data (CSV, JSON)
- [ ] Dark/Light theme toggle
- [ ] Notification system for mission events

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether it's:

- Bug reports
- Feature suggestions
- Documentation improvements
- UI/UX enhancements
- Code contributions

**How to contribute:**

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

---

## License

This project is licensed under the **Apache License 2.0** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## Acknowledgments

- **NASA** - For providing incredible public APIs and mission data
- **JPL** - For the Horizons System API and spacecraft tracking data
- **Vercel** - For seamless deployment and hosting
- **Open Source Community** - For the amazing tools and libraries that make this possible

---

## Contact

**Project Maintainer:** [@Sarks0](https://github.com/Sarks0)

**Project Link:** [https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix](https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix)

**Live Demo:** [https://deepsix.vercel.app](https://deepsix.vercel.app)

---

<div align="center">
  <p><strong>Built with passion for space exploration</strong></p>
  <p><em>Bringing the cosmos closer to everyone, one mission at a time</em></p>

  <sub>Star this repo if you find it interesting!</sub>
</div>

Commit message:

docs: Add comprehensive work-in-progress notice to README
Enhanced the project status notice to clearly communicate:
- Project is actively under development
- May contain bugs or incomplete features
- Data availability and accuracy disclaimer
- Appreciation for user patience

This sets appropriate expectations for users and contributors
about the current state of the project.

README.md, after:

# DeepSix - Navigate the Deepest Frontiers

<div align="center">
  <img src="deepSix.png" alt="DeepSix Logo" width="600" />

  <p align="center">
    <strong>Real-time mission control for humanity's journey into the deepest reaches of space</strong>
  </p>

  <!-- Badges -->
  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix/stargazers">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Sarks0/DeepSix?style=for-the-badge&logo=starship&color=C9CBFF&logoColor=D9E0EE&labelColor=302D41" alt="Stars">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix/blob/main/LICENSE">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/Sarks0/DeepSix?style=for-the-badge&logo=apache&color=FAE3B0&logoColor=D9E0EE&labelColor=302D41" alt="License">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix/commits/main">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/Sarks0/DeepSix?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&color=ABE9B3&logoColor=D9E0EE&labelColor=302D41" alt="Last Commit">
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix/graphs/contributors">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/Sarks0/DeepSix?style=for-the-badge&logo=opensourceinitiative&color=F28FAD&logoColor=D9E0EE&labelColor=302D41" alt="Contributors">
    </a>
  </p>

  <!-- Tech Stack Badges -->
  <p align="center">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js_15-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=next.js&logoColor=white" alt="Next.js">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white" alt="TypeScript">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwind_CSS-38B2AC?style=for-the-badge&logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white" alt="Tailwind CSS">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Framer_Motion-0055FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=framer&logoColor=white" alt="Framer Motion">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Vercel-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white" alt="Vercel">
  </p>

  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://deepsix.vercel.app">Live Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="#features">Features</a>
    ·
    <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
    ·
    <a href="#mission-coverage">Missions</a>
    ·
    <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a>
  </p>
</div>

---

## About

A comprehensive real-time dashboard for tracking **15+ NASA deep space missions** across the solar system and beyond. DeepSix provides live mission data, spacecraft telemetry, Mars sol cycle monitoring, and real-time position tracking using NASA's official APIs.

> **Work in Progress** - This project is actively under development and may contain bugs or incomplete features. Data may not always be available or accurate. We appreciate your patience as we continue to improve DeepSix.

---

## Features

### Mars Mission Tracking
- **Real-time Sol Tracking** - Live Martian day counters for Perseverance & Curiosity
- **Mars Local Solar Time (MLST)** - Accurate timekeeping on Mars
- **Seasonal Information** - Current Mars season and solar longitude
- **Latest Surface Photos** - Fresh images from Mars rovers with automatic rotation
- **Mission Telemetry** - Health status, signal strength, and data rates

### Deep Space Missions
- **Live Position Data** - Real-time spacecraft positions via JPL Horizons API
- **Distance & Velocity** - Current distance from Earth and travel speeds
- **Communication Delays** - Signal travel time calculations (one-way & round-trip)
- **Mission Status** - Health, operational status, and fuel remaining
- **Journey Progress** - For en route missions (Europa Clipper, Lucy, Psyche, OSIRIS-APEX)

### Mission Coverage (15+ Missions)
- **Mars System** - 5 active missions (rovers, orbiters, landers)
- **Deep Space Probes** - Voyager 1 & 2, Parker Solar Probe, New Horizons
- **Jupiter System** - Juno orbiter, Europa Clipper (en route)
- **Asteroid Missions** - Lucy, Psyche, OSIRIS-APEX (all en route)
- **Space Observatories** - James Webb Space Telescope

### User Experience
- **Full-Width Responsive Design** - Optimized for all screen sizes
- **Data Source Attribution** - Clear labeling of API sources (NASA, JPL)
- **Smooth Animations** - Powered by Framer Motion
- **Offline Support** - Image caching with IndexedDB
- **Real-time Updates** - Live data feeds with configurable refresh rates

---

## Mission Coverage

### Mars System (5 missions)
| Mission | Type | Status | Tracking |
|---------|------|--------|----------|
| **Perseverance** | Rover | Active | Sol tracking, Photos, Telemetry |
| **Curiosity** | Rover | Active | Sol tracking, Photos, Telemetry |
| **Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter** | Orbiter | Active (19+ years) | Status, Telemetry |
| **MAVEN** | Orbiter | Active | Status, Telemetry |
| **Mars Odyssey** | Orbiter | Active (24+ years) | Status, Telemetry |

### Deep Space Probes (4 missions)
| Mission | Location | Distance | Tracking |
|---------|----------|----------|----------|
| **Voyager 1** | Interstellar Space | 164+ AU | Position, Status, Telemetry |
| **Voyager 2** | Interstellar Space | 134+ AU | Position, Status, Telemetry |
| **Parker Solar Probe** | Solar Corona | Variable | Position, Status, Telemetry |
| **New Horizons** | Kuiper Belt | 62.2 AU | Position, Status, Telemetry |

### Jupiter System (2 missions)
| Mission | Status | Arrival | Tracking |
|---------|--------|---------|----------|
| **Juno** | Active (Extended) | In orbit | Position, Status, Telemetry |
| **Europa Clipper** | En Route | April 2030 | Position, Journey Status |

### Asteroid Missions (3 missions)
| Mission | Target | Arrival | Tracking |
|---------|--------|---------|----------|
| **Lucy** | Trojan Asteroids | 2027-2033 | Position, Journey Status |
| **Psyche** | Metallic Asteroid | August 2029 | Position, Journey Status |
| **OSIRIS-APEX** | Asteroid Apophis | April 2029 | Position, Journey Status |

### Space Observatories (1 mission)
| Mission | Location | Purpose | Tracking |
|---------|----------|---------|----------|
| **James Webb** | L2 Lagrange | Infrared Observatory | Status, Telemetry |

### Historical Missions (Available)
- **Mars InSight** - Ended December 2022 (Seismic studies)

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js 20+** - [Download](https://nodejs.org/)
- **NASA API Key** - Free at [api.nasa.gov](https://api.nasa.gov)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix.git
   cd DeepSix
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   # Edit .env.local and add your NASA API key
   ```

4. **Run the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open the dashboard**

   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### Deployment

**Deploy to Vercel** (Recommended):

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix)

**Or build manually**:
```bash
npm run build
npm run start
```

---

## Tech Stack

### Core Framework
- **Next.js 15** - React framework with App Router and Server Components
- **TypeScript** - Full type safety and enhanced developer experience
- **React 19** - Latest React features and performance improvements

### Styling & UI
- **Tailwind CSS** - Utility-first CSS framework
- **Framer Motion** - Production-ready animation library
- **CSS Grid & Flexbox** - Modern responsive layouts

### State Management & Data
- **Zustand** - Lightweight state management
- **IndexedDB** - Client-side data caching for offline support
- **React Query** - Server state management (coming soon)

### APIs & Data Sources
- **NASA Mars Rover Photos API** - Latest images from Mars surface
- **NASA JPL Horizons API** - Real-time spacecraft positions
- **NASA Deep Space Network (DSN)** - Communication tracking
- **Mars Weather API** - Martian atmospheric data

### Development Tools
- **ESLint** - Code linting and style enforcement
- **Prettier** - Code formatting
- **TypeScript Compiler** - Type checking

### Deployment
- **Vercel** - Edge network deployment with automatic CI/CD
- **GitHub Actions** - Automated testing and deployment workflows

---

## Development Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start development server (localhost:3000) |
| `npm run build` | Build for production |
| `npm run start` | Start production server |
| `npm run lint` | Run ESLint code linting |
| `npm run type-check` | TypeScript type checking |
| `npm run format` | Format code with Prettier |

---

## Roadmap

### Current Features
- [x] 15+ mission coverage with live data
- [x] Real-time position tracking (JPL Horizons API)
- [x] Mars sol tracking for active rovers
- [x] Mission status indicators and telemetry
- [x] Communication delay calculations
- [x] Full-width responsive design
- [x] Data source attribution

### Planned Features
- [ ] Mission filtering and sorting
- [ ] 3D visualization of spacecraft positions
- [ ] Historical mission archives
- [ ] International missions (ESA, JAXA)
- [ ] Timeline view for mission milestones
- [ ] Deep Space Network (DSN) status dashboard
- [ ] Mission comparison tools
- [ ] Export mission data (CSV, JSON)
- [ ] Dark/Light theme toggle
- [ ] Notification system for mission events

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Whether it's:

- Bug reports
- Feature suggestions
- Documentation improvements
- UI/UX enhancements
- Code contributions

**How to contribute:**

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

---

## License

This project is licensed under the **Apache License 2.0** - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## Acknowledgments

- **NASA** - For providing incredible public APIs and mission data
- **JPL** - For the Horizons System API and spacecraft tracking data
- **Vercel** - For seamless deployment and hosting
- **Open Source Community** - For the amazing tools and libraries that make this possible

---

## Contact

**Project Maintainer:** [@Sarks0](https://github.com/Sarks0)

**Project Link:** [https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix](https://github.com/Sarks0/DeepSix)

**Live Demo:** [https://deepsix.vercel.app](https://deepsix.vercel.app)

---

<div align="center">
  <p><strong>Built with passion for space exploration</strong></p>
  <p><em>Bringing the cosmos closer to everyone, one mission at a time</em></p>

  <sub>Star this repo if you find it interesting!</sub>
</div>
